---
# permalink: 
 title: Day 1
# layout: wide
---

-------------------
- Guest Lecture: Bill Dresselhaus, Industrial Engineer
- Final Project: Problem Sharing, Discussion, and Voting

-------------------

## Guest Lecture: Bill Dresselhaus

Representation and communication of ideas is a critical part of collaborative invention and engineering.
Today we will have a guest lecture by [Bill Dresselhaus](http://billdresselhaus.fatcow.com/dgi/), an experienced industrial and design engineer and educator who has taught design sketching and product aesthetics to engineers for many years. Mr. Dresselhaus will present on the topic of idea-sketching and lead the class in a guided design-drawing activity, to help students better represent their design ideas and consider aesthetics while also designing for function. 

## Final Project:

### Problem Sharing

Last Friday, Inventors were asked to think about what problem they would like to solve, given the tools provided in this camp. 

<br>
Their [homework](/assets/PDF/W1HW.pdf) was to identify a minimum of three problems from the previously identified [list of problems](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vSitv8qFGFHnYCoWoTmZgjuqIgvgpn86aYoDS4iPcqOUfbOI49pPcmOpmgO6kpPp6LnfGfr3rOWMMGE/pubhtml?gid=1403666124&single=true)  and narrow the scope of the problem to one that can be addressed via technology. Inventors were encouraged to discuss their problem topics with others, to help identify a concrete problem statement that includes a _who, what,_ and a _why_

<br>
Today, we will share these problem statements as a class, refine them, and evaluate their potential as viable project problems. 

### Problem Selection and Voting

Once a short list of viable project problems have been identified, students will be asked to vote for their 1st, 2nd, and 3rd project choices.
<br>
The 4-5 most popular projects will be selected as final project topics and a second round of voting will take place. Students will be distributed into project groups based on their voting, with a maximum group size of 3, with preference given to students who originally identified a problem topic.

### Problem Discussion

Once project groups are identified, students will join their project group and meet the mentor that will be assisting them for the first week of their project. 

<br> 
Time permitting, students will discuss what their problem solution might look like, and begin to define and requirements of their solution.

#### Identifying Requirements: 
- What constitutes a "solution" to the project problem*?
- What is the defining feature/attribute of an invention that addresses this problem?
- What are some additional functions that the invention might have? (_Think of physical sensors and actuators, not just abstract outcomes_).
- Identify "Minimum" and "Reach" Functionality: What is the bare minimum your invention has to accomplish, what are some additional features you could reach for?

<br> _*Note:_ At this point it is okay to to sketch, list, and describe potential solutions, but try not to decide on a particular solution design or method, especially if it is your problem idea. Give everyone in the group a chance to contribute and explore potential solutions. 















